I
hello I'm dr. Rudy spherical Otto and
chiropractor I've been practicing for
about 25 years in the Atlanta area and
I'm also a massage therapist by training
and i am an instructor of anatomy and
physiology at pacha school of massage
and this is the first in a series of
videos on the anatomy and physiology
course that we teach at pacha which
obviously is geared towards in sauk
therapists and perspective massage
therapists now the first thing i'd like
to talk about is the style of teaching
that we use an Asha in our now the
physiology course we use all three
portals of learning and what does that
mean it means we use the audio the
visual and the kinesthetic portals of
learning audio simply means you learn by
listening a hearing visual means you
learn by seeing and kinesthetic means
you learn by doing by touching and I
find that the audio portal of learning
in on itself is not very effective audio
means the teacher talks and you listen
visual is also very important than
teaching anatomy so we have lots of
charts in bone shards Muslim charts and
lots of models and other visual aids now
the kinesthetic world is especially
important for massage services so in our
anatomy physiology course region lots
and lots of hands-on work now the main
emphasis in any anatomy course part in
the sauce school is going to be as you
might guess the muscular system here is
the muscular system it consists of about
700 muscles and most of them are
prepared and the job of the muscles is
to provide us with all of our externally
visible movements they do that by
contracting muscles shortened that for
example this muscle or the biceps
brachii when it contracts it pulls on
the forearm and allows us to
then elbow now most of these muscles are
attached to our bus so we also study the
skeleton our skeleton consists of 206
bones the whole thing weighs about 30
pounds and the skeleton actually is two
skeletons which we call the axial
skeleton and the appendicular skeleton
the axial skeleton consists of the scope
spinal column and the rib cage and the
appendicular skeleton is our arms and
legs now you will notice that bones of
the axial skeleton are fairly small and
they are fitted pretty tightly together
so they don't move very much consider
the skull view the skull looks like a
single bone but actually is $29 most of
which are fitted very tightly together
now a contrast the appendicular skeleton
consists of larger bones long does like
the wrong bone here this is the uterus
the arm bone and this is the femur the
thigh bone which is the largest and
strongest problems in the body these
bones form very freely movable joints
which gives us all the free movements
that we are associated with in walking
and climbing and swimming and throwing
the ball things like that now in
learning the skeleton we don't just
learn names of bones yes you will learn
the names of all the bones but we also
have to learn the names of the bus on
the bones for example on the back of the
elbow here if you feel your elbow that
for this quality olecranon process which
is a voting projection on one of the
bones of farm the electoral process is
where this muscle attaches this
the triceps muscle in the back of your
arm it attaches to the olecranon process
and one of the triceps muscle contracts
is pulling on the olecranon process and
allows us to do this and in that same
manner all of these muscles are going to
be attaching somewhere on the skeleton
and they generally attached to the bone
box that you can feel all over the body
so why do we need this level of
specificity why do we need all these
details when we study the body well
quite simply because the type of massage
that we teach at pacha requires this
level of specificity when your knowledge
is specific your work can be specific
and this allows us to be more effective
in pain relief and rehabilitation for
example in my practice I have found that
one of the best treatments for a
whiplash injury which is an injury of
the neck is the right kind of massage
which means specific kind of massage
combined with the right chiropractor
adjustment not only does that provide
pain relief but it also allows me injury
to heal completely rather than leaving a
letter a legacy of lingering pain and
stiffness and white lies even in an old
injury the product engine such as the
shoulder that doesn't move very much and
which has pain on a movement by kind of
massage specific performing sauce and
greatly increased mobility as well as
reducing the chronic pain so this is the
kind of massage that we teach at Hofstra
and it's also the time a massage that we
practice in our clinic and this
concludes our first anatomy and
physiology video i invite you to give
you other videos that posture massage
calm and
short section and while you are on the
site you can check out our credit and as
you drive you from local to pluck so
thank you for watching and hope to see
you in class